---
category: overview
heading: How To
---

- [How Can I set up a new Dharmafly project website?] (#how-can-i-set-up-a-new-dharmafly-project-website)
- [Adding Posts](#adding-posts)
- [Updating an existing project] (#updating-an-existing-project)
- [Changing the domain for your project's site](#changing-the-domain-for-your-projects-site)
- [Required posts] (#required-posts)

<h2><a id="how-can-i-set-up-a-new-dharmafly-project-website" class="permalink">&#8205;</a>How Can I set up a new Dharmafly project website?</h2>

It's recommended that you use the project's command line tool, `satya-cli` to build and update your project website (and far easier).

### Using the command line tool

#### 1) Prepare the documentation

You will first need your documentation written in your working branch. 

For the command line tool (satya-cli) to operate correctly, the documentation should be in the [appropriate format](#adding-posts) and in the correct file location:

1. In a `docs` directory.
2. With filenames in the form: `1. Example title.md`, `2. Another doc.md` etc.

#### 2) Run the command line tool

1. Follow the instructions in the [`satya-cli`](https://github.com/dharmafly/satya-cli) repository, to install Satya-cli.
2. Run [`satya init`](https://github.com/dharmafly/satya-cli#init) to build your project website in a new gh-pages branch. 
3. [Follow the instructions](https://github.com/dharmafly/satya-cli#build) and update the generated config file to [customise your site](#site-variables)

### Setting up manually

If you don't have access to Ruby or if the command line tool fails, then follow the steps [in the Wiki] (https://github.com/dharmafly/satya/wiki/Setting-up-a-Dharmafly-Docs-project-instance-manually) to setup Satya.

### Testing your project site locally

You'll probably want to test your genereated documentation site locally before you push to Github Pages.

If you're using the command line tool, run `satya server` and navigate to `http://0.0.0.0:4000`. 

If not, [install jekyll] (https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/Install) and [run the server locally] (https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/usage).

<h2><a id="adding-posts" class="permalink">&#8205;</a>Adding Posts</h2>

If you've already run Satya-cli and build a site from your documentation, to add a new post 

1. add a new markdown file e.g. `3. New doc.md` to the `docs` directory within your working branch.
2. Run `satya build`
3. Test the changes locally
4. `git push` the gh-pages branch

### Required post formatting

In order to differentiate between posts in the index page and those in the reference section, each post should begin with the following:

    ---
    category: reference
    ---

or

    ---
    category: overview
    ---

WARNING: If posts do not have either one of these prologues, they won't be displayed.

You can also add the heading for your post using the optional `heading` variable - it's recommended that you do to ensure non-alphanumeric characters are displayed in your section titles. 

(If this is not set, the title defaults to the post's filename). 

The `heading` variable should be used like so:

    ---
    category: overview
    heading: "Post Heading"
    ---
    
Complex characters and html are also permitted:

    ---
    category: overview
    heading: "Why I love the <code>!important</code> rule"
    ---

The very first `overview` post in the directory will be used for the project overview (it will be displayed in a highlighted box).

The remaining posts with `category: overview` will appear in the main nav and on the front page.

`category: reference` posts will appear in the *Reference* sub-page.

(INFO: These are examples of [YAML Front Matter] (https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll/wiki/YAML-Front-Matter) )

<h2><a id="updating-an-existing-project" class="permalink">&#8205;</a>Updating an existing project</h2>

If a project has a website hosted on github pages it will have a gh-pages branch.

The project website will either be hosted at dharmafly.github.com/project-name/ or at a custom domain.

It's recommended that you use [satya-cli](https://github.com/dharmafly/satya-cli) to add posts.

If you are unable, you can add posts manually. [Details on the wiki] (https://github.com/dharmafly/satya/wiki/Manually-adding-posts)

<h2><a id="changing-the-domain-for-your-projects-site" class="permalink">&#8205;</a>Changing the domain for your project's site</h2>

All Github Pages sites are hosted at < your username >.github.com/< your project name > by default.

If you'd like a custom domain name for your project's site,
1. Create a file called `CNAME` containing only the custom domain name.
2. Add it to your project's `gh-pages` branch root folder.

More details on updating DNS settings, etc on [Github Pages documentation] (https://help.github.com/articles/setting-up-a-custom-domain-with-pages)

<h2><a id="required-posts" class="permalink">&#8205;</a>Required posts</h2>

There are no required posts, however the first post in your `docs` directory will be styled as an overview section on the index page.
