---
category: reference
---

A simple query looks like this:

    {
      "url": "http://chrisnewtn.com",
      "selector": "ul.social li a",
      "extract": "href",
      "type": "html"
    }

The `type` property is used to tell noodle if you are wanting to scrape a html 
page, json document etc. If no type is specified then a html page will be 
assumed by default.

A similar query can be constructed to extract information from a JSON document.
JSONSelect is used as the underlying library to do this. It supports common CSS3 
selector functionality. You can [familiarize yourself with it here.](http://jsonselect.org/#tryit)

    {
      "url": "https://search.twitter.com/search.json?q=friendship",
      "selector": ".results .from_user",
      "type": "json"
    }

An `extract` property is not needed for a query on JSON documents as json 
properties have no meta-data and just a value.

## Document types and selector usage

Different document types need a different type of selector to be used.

- `html` requires the use of standard css dom selectors
- `json` requires the use of JSONSelect style selectors
- `feed` requires the use of JSONSelect style selectors
- `xml`  requires the use of JSONSelect style selectors

## Mapping a query to familiar properties

Queries can also be written in the map notation.  

  {
      "url": "https://github.com/chrisnewtn",
      "type": "html",
      "map": {
          "person": {
              "selector": "span[itemprop=name]",
              "extract": "text"
          },
          "repos": {
              "selector": "li h3",
              "extract": "text"
          }
      }
  }

With results looking like this:  

  [
      {
          "results": {
              "person": [
                  {
                      "text": "Chris Newton"
                  }
              ],
              "repos": [
                  {
                      "text": "cmd-async-slides"
                  },
                  {
                      "text": "jquery-async-uploader"
                  },
                  {
                      "text": "cmd.js"
                  },
                  {
                      "text": "sitestatus"
                  },
                  {
                      "text": "simplechat"
                  }
              ]
          },
          "created": "2013-01-07T16:13:14.947Z"
      }
  ]