---
category: reference
---

The `extract` property could be the HTML element's attribute. This property 
should be ommitted when selecting from a JSON Document as the node value is 
always assumed. This same rule applies to feed and xml types.

Having `"html"` or `"innerHTML"` as the `extract` value will return the
containing HTML within that element.

Having `"text"` as the `extract` value will return only the text. noodle will 
strip out any new line characters found in the text.

Return data looks like this:

    {
        "results": [
            {
                "href": "http://twitter.com/chrisnewtn"
            },
            {
                "href": "http://plus.google.com/u/0/111845796843095584341"
            }
        ],
        "created": "2012-08-01T16:22:14.705Z"
    }

Having no specific extract rule will assume a default of extracting `"html"` 
from the `selector`.

## Getting the entire web document

If no `selector` is specified than the entire document is returned. The 
`extract` rule will be ignored if included.

Query:

    {
      "url": "https://search.twitter.com/search.json?q=friendship"
    }

Response:

    {
      "results": ["<full document contents>"],
      "created": "2012-10-24T15:37:29.796Z"
    }

## Getting the server headers

noodle can proxy the requested urls server headers. Within a query include the 
`headers` property with an array value listing the headers you wish to recieve 
back as an object structure. `'all'` may also be used as a value to return all 
of the server headers.

Headers are treated case-insensitive and the returned property names will 
match exactly to the string you requested with.

Query:

    {
      "url": "http://github.com",
      "headers": ["conection", "content-TYPE"]
    }

Result:

    {
      "results": [...],
      "headers": {
        "connection": "keep-alive",
        "content-TYPE": "text/html"
      }
      "created":"2012-11-14T13:06:02.521Z"
    }

noodle provides a shortcut to the server Link header with the query 
`linkHeader` property set to `true`. The Link header will be parsed to an 
object structure. If you wish to have the Link header in its usual formatting 
then include it in the `headers` array instead.

Query:
    
    {
      "url": "https://api.github.com/users/premasagar/starred",
      "type": "json",
      "selector": ".language",
      "headers": ["connection"],
      "linkHeader": true
    }

Result:  

    {
      "results": [
        "JavaScript",
        "Ruby",
        "JavaScript",
      ],
      "headers": {
        "connection": "keep-alive",
        "link": {
          "next": "https://api.github.com/users/premasagar/starred?page=2",
          "last": "https://api.github.com/users/premasagar/starred?page=2"
        }
      },
      "created": "2012-11-16T15:48:33.866Z"
    }
